>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
>>George Noory: And
welcome to Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory.
You know practically every
computer we have has an
antivirus system on
it called McAfee.
Well, the McAfee is sitting
right next to me John McAfee.
John, welcome to the program.
How are you?
>> George McAfee:
Thank you George.
I'm great to have
to be here sir.
>> Noory: Good to see you.
Good to see you indeed.
What an incredible
career you have had.
>> McAfee: Well, I have some ups
and downs and certainly a lot
of tangents and it's been a wild
ride for me and I've enjoyed it.
>> Noory: When you
started off were you
into computers as a kid?
Did they have computers--
>> McAfee: When I was a kid,
they didn't have computers.
Actually, one of the
first computers ever,
ever made was a computer made
by General Electric
called the GPAC.
And it was used for
process automation.
I was fortunate enough to get
a job with General Electric,
the first year that
they came out.
There was no software
engineering at that time.
There were no programs
in school--
>> Noory: Amazing.
>> McAfee: And General Electric
did their own education programs
so I went through a very
intensive software engineering
school at G.E. This is at--
while I was in grad school--
>> Noory: Learning as you went--
>> McAfee: Learning as I
went along and I've been
in computers ever since.
>> Noory: Now, at what point
in your career did you started
dabbling in the software
with the antivirus because--
I mean who would even
know there was a virus
to defend at that time?
>> McAfee: Well, I didn't
to be quite frankly.
A virus was discovered in 1986
called the Pakistani Brain.
It was the world's
first computer virus.
>> Noory: Developed?
>> McAfee: Developed by a two
brothers in Lahore, Pakistan.
For an odd place for such
technology to come from
but no one had conceived
to the concept of a program
that could replicate
itself and moved
and that's what a
electronic computer viruses.
It's a piece of software that
acts like a bacteria or a virus.
>> Noory: What do they
want to do with the virus?
I mean what-- each
virus has a plan, right?
>> McAfee: None of
them are good.
The Lahore brothers wrote into
the programs of a procedure
to wipe out everything
on the hard disk.
They thought it was fun.
And funny it was--
>> Noory: A little game.
>> McAfee: It was a game.
It was not funny to the people
who encountered the virus.
Anyway, when I first heard
of it which was about a day
after it was first discovered,
I called a friend, got a copy,
took a look at it and suddenly,
I saw how did they did it.
And I go wow, what an
incredibly beautiful technique
because it was.
In terms of software
engineering,
it was beautifully engineered.
No one had ever conceived
to the concept before.
And at the same time,
I saw how it was done.
I saw huh!
Well this is how you can
stop this or cure this.
And I wrote a little
program, put it out on--
we didn't have the
internet then,
we have bulletin board systems.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: And, you
know, within a month,
everyone in the world
had a computer program
and the rest is history.
>> Noory: And it was
fighting that virus.
>> McAfee: They got
rid of that virus, yes.
>> Noory: That is amazing.
And at what point,
did you decide
to form the company McAfee?
>> McAfee: Well, it was when
the next virus came out.
It was virus called
the Jerusalem.
>> Noory: They keep coming.
>> McAfee: They keep
coming and also
from the same part of the world.
But the second one was
the Jerusalem virus
and it was a very
odd little thing.
This is before we had Windows
and everything was
texted on the monitor.
It made all the letters
fall into a jumble
at the bottom of your screen.
Another very interesting
virus, so at that time,
everyone had downloaded
my program for the Brain.
It took about two days and
I wrote another program
for the Jerusalem
and at that point,
I knew that the world
needed this
because this is not
going to stop.
>> McAfee: You know
this is amazing.
>> Noory: Not going to stop
and it doesn't and it hasn't.
There are thousands and
thousands of viruses
that have been written
in the interim.
>> Noory: John, is it--
today is that a virus person
versus an antivirus
person every other day
because I noticed I'm getting
updates almost every other day
and stuff like that.
>> McAfee: Yes.
Yes, yes, it is.
In fact, there's almost
an unofficial war going
on between-- if you want
to call them the good guys
and the bad guys depending
on which sides you
happen to be on--
>> Noory: That's right, right.
McAfee: Right, but
keep in mind many
of the virus writers
have political agendas.
>> Noory: Uh-hmm.
>> McAfee: They-- They
feel that there are some--
some slight or some wrong
in some world government
that they're trying to
readdress, you know,
by bringing down the central
computer systems, what have you.
On the other side, we
look at them as vandals
because they are
destroying our work.
So there is a war going on.
>> Noory: To create a virus
to let's say shutdown the
power grid, that's being worked
on now I think by
rogue nations isn't it?
>> McAfee: Of course.
Absolutely.
>> Noory: And we're
probably doing it too.
>> McAfee: Well, if we aren't, I
would be very surprised George.
Of course and what happen
is the anti has been up.
If you think a couple of Lahore
hackers in Pakistan or Russia
or where have you,
they're going to do
so much damage even though
the damage they can do is
still great.
If you take a government with
all of its resources and money
and technical capabilities,
what would come
out will be horrible
beyond belief.
>> Noory: Do you
ever see the day
where another country would
shutdown, the satellite systems,
the computers and everything of
a country they're going after?
>> McAfee: Yes, absolutely.
And I think-- I think it would
be done by countries like China
or possibly Russia that that go
way beyond the technical aspect
of viruses and computer crime.
And they have merited with the
science of human engineering.
OK. And human engineering
is merely the science
of taking people and going--
this is how they're going to
behave in a certain condition.
You know, they'll watch you.
Let's say we want to put a virus
in George Noory's
computer, how do we do it?
Well, I would watch
you for a while--
>> Noory: Learn.
>> McAfee: I would see
what's your habits are,
what sort of foods you ate.
Are you a curious man?
Are you not a curios man?
If you're a curious
for example--
>> Noory: Do I go to the
ATM a lot?
>> McAfee: Right.
Well, if you're a curious man,
I would take a thumb drive
and drop it in front of your
car with a little label on it.
And let's say your favorite
thing is flying saucers
and I would say flying saucer
research, little label.
I guarantee you're going to
put that in your computer.
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: As soon as you
do, I own your computer.
>> Noory: It's got me.
>> McAfee: It's got you.
Now, this is a very
simple example.
You can imagine how more complex
and subtle examples would
be impossible to circumvent.
So this is how they're
getting in.
It's not by trying to solve
or unravel our encryptions,
or to bypass some firewall.
No. This is defined as
[inaudible] with access
to the system and
compromising her own computer.
This is how it happens.
>> Noory: I've got a personal
e-mail and I use Yahoo.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: I noticed a couple of
days ago, I had an email from me
with some trashy stuff on it.
[ Laughter ]
>> Noory: I didn't send it.
>> McAfee: No of course--
>> Noory: -- but it clearly
had my email address on it.
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
>> Noory: What happened?
>> McAfee: OK.
This is a very common thing.
OK. Sometimes it's malicious,
sometimes there's a
business reason behind it.
What happened is you got unto a
website and downloaded a cookie
which transferred your
entire contact list
to someone or a hacker.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: That contact
list now,
now he knows your email
address and all of your contacts
and you are also in the
contact list as yourself,
then everybody is
going to get an email.
Now, maybe a little bit be an
email saying something like
"Gosh, I tried this new"
whatever, "this new diet
and I loss 30 pounds."
>> Noory: And they
think it's from me?
>> McAfee: Anything is from you.
And we trust you
so they go "Gosh,
I'm going to go out
and buy it now."
And there's a link at
the bottom of the page
to order it for 99.95.
That's one example or maybe
there's this malicious people
and they enjoy making
your day, you know--
>> Noory: Miserable.
>> McAfee: -- a miserable day.
And so they send dirty pictures
through all of your friends--
>> Noory: Oh, God.
>> McAfee: -- with
your name attached.
>> Noory: So my network people--
>> McAfee: To your
network people and so on.
And so it's happened
to a lot of my friends.
>> Noory: How did they get that?
How did they get the ability
to use my email address?
>> McAfee: Because-- Because
here is the issue George,
you run applications and you
access websites that store--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: -- on your
computer programs.
This is-- This is the way
the world is working now
and it's really dangerous.
These programs have the
ability to contact the owner
or the person who
wrote the program.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: So it goes into
your drive because it's running
on your computer, he can
access whatever he wants,
get your contact list
and send it home.
>> Noory: Now, outside of
dumping my Yahoo address,
how do I fight that personally?
Do I change my password?
>> McAfee: Well, that happens.
What you have to do
is be more cautious.
Let me give you an example.
>> Noory: I need John
McAfee over on my computers?
>> McAfee: Right.
You, the other thing--
on my software or you maybe
need some little advice.
For example, do you
have a smart phone?
>> Noory: Yes.
>> McAfee: And an
iPhone or an Android?
>> Noory: Yeah, Android.
>> McAfee: An Android.
OK. Now, I recommend that
you go and download the Bank
of America banking application.
Whether or not you have an
account doesn't really matter.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: And you install it,
it's an app that runs
on your smart phone.
>> Noory: Right, right.
>> McAfee: And instead of just
saying I agree to all the terms
and conditions which
we all do, read them,
specifically the
one referencing--
>> Noory: I've never
read any of them.
>> McAfee: Let me tell you
why you need to George.
Then look at the one
that says camera.
OK.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: And it will say
"By agreeing to these terms,
you give the Bank of
America application the right
to access your camera
and microphone at anytime
without us having to notify
you that we're doing it now."
>> Noory: While that
phone is on.
>> McAfee: While that phone is
on at any point, they can turn
on the camera and look at you
or whatever your
camera is pointing at.
If you have a front and back,
they can choose which
one to go to.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: Why do they do that?
It's very obvious.
Think about it.
I have a Bank of America account
and I do banking
applications on my smartphone.
I'm having rough times.
I empty my account and then call
the banks that I didn't do it.
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: The bank goes
it sure looks like you,
we have a picture
of you actually doing
it and we've got the--
>> Noory: We got you.
>> McAfee: Yeah,
and we've got you.
So you can see why, however,
it spooks me out George
because if the Bank of
America can do it, anybody can.
And look at you will find that
over half of the applications
that you are running, you have
given the right to either turn
on the microphone whenever they
want or the camera or both.
Why? Think about why.
I mean if I--
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
There's too many apps.
Look at the NSA, look
what they're doing.
>> McAfee: If I am
Russian spy-- pardon?
>> Noory: Look what
the NASA is doing.
>> McAfee: Absolutely,
but it doesn't even
need to be the NASA.
We're giving the role
the right to spy on us
by our blind acceptance
of terms and conditions
which we don't bother to read.
>> Noory: Nobody reads it.
Nobody reads it.
>> McAfee: You need to start
and the world needs to start
because otherwise, we're going
to have some serious problems.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: So try it out.
This would be proof
in the pudding.
Get the application on the
Android, click on terms--
because you can read
them if you want.
And it will tell you why by--
yes, you're giving us the right
and we don't have to tell
you when we're doing it.
>> Noory: Are we too
technologically advanced
these days?
>> McAfee: Yes, because we were
more technologically advanced
than our custom and
conditioning allows.
If the world is going
to change radically
over the next few years--
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: -- and
not to our benefit,
somebody who is very smart, very
powerful is going to take all
of these capabilities
and suddenly,
we're going to be
puppets on the string.
>> Noory: Let's talk a
little bit about your company
about some of the bizarre things
that have happened
to you in your life.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: So you have
McAfee software antivirus--
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: The companies
grows, what happens?
You sell out or somebody buys
you that way, what happens?
>> McAfee: What happen
is I think if you look
at the early days of McAfee, we
were the fastest growing company
in the world ever recorded.
And why? I didn't
have a sales force.
>> Noory: Privately held
at that time, right?
>> McAfee: Yeah, it was
privately held for two years
and I took it public and
ran it for two more years.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: But it even
privately and publicly,
it was the fastest
growing company.
Our profit margin is pretaxed
for 96 percent, that
I've heard of.
>> Noory: Huge.
>> McAfee: Huge.
Why? We didn't have
a sales force.
We didn't have a
marketing force.
All we had were people who took
orders on the phone and staff
that wrote the software.
It was a new; it was a
completely new approach
to business.
We didn't-- we didn't put out
disks or paper or anything,
the software was
downloaded from our system.
>> Noory: And you made one--
>> McAfee: And we gave it
and we gave it away for free.
If you wanted to keep it, if
you wanted updates, you tell us
and you sign up for updates
which we charge you
by the month for.
The--
>> Noory: That's how
you made the money?
>> McAfee: That's how
we made the money.
And the first year,
there were four employees
and we have 11 million
dollars in revenue.
And that's just kept going on.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: So it was a lot
of fun because it was--
it was high technology and it
was things that I truly enjoyed
than working with companies
directly on infections
that they would get and
solving their security issues.
After four years, we had
thousands of employees.
We had personnel issues.
I had stockholders.
I had board of directors
meetings.
>> Noory: And you're
an entrepreneur.
>> McAfee: I'm not entrepreneur.
>> Noory: Entrepreneurs
don't like that stuff like?
>> McAfee: No, it was
like it was a nightmare.
I dreaded getting up and
going to work in the morning.
I'm sitting at a table,
some long mahogany table
and everybody's got these
stuffy suits on and stern looks
and I am explaining
why our margins are
up one percent or
down another bit.
>> Noory: And they don't get it.
>> McAfee: And they
don't get it.
Everybody is interested
in the short term but what
about this quarter's earnings.
Who cares?
Where I'm worrying about our
earnings three years from now
because we have to survive.
The American business
environment is
so focused on them now.
I want my returns today.
The rest of the world is
looking at 20 years from now.
>> Noory: That's right,
China like-- it's like China.
>> McAfee: Like China.
That's why-- it's why it's
hard to compete with China,
if we're worried about today.
So after-- after a couple of
years, after going public ago,
"I'm not enjoying this anymore."
I'm not.
>> Noory: I want out.
>> McAfee: I want out and
they didn't want me out.
And so--
>> Noory: You were the company.
>> McAfee: I hired a guy name
Bill Larson [assumed spelling]
who was a Senior vice President
at IBM, very, very, you know,
gang ho, go-getter brilliant
guy, Bohemian, made him the COO,
stayed with him for six months,
the board loved him,
everybody loved him.
And then I said goodbye.
>> Noory: I'm out of here.
>> McAfee: I'm out of here.
>> Noory: Did you sell
your stock and get out or?
>> McAfee: I did because if
I kept my stock, then I'd end
up still coming to
board meetings, I'd be--
>> Noory: On the company store.
>> McAfee: I want
to cut the strings.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: And I went off
and immediately formed another
company called Tribal Voice
and where we did the first
instant messaging system.
>> Noory: You have a midas
touch when it comes to this?
>> McAfee: Apparently.
>> Noory: Touch me, would you?
So you get bought out,
you sell your stock--
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: And McAfee
subsequently gets purchased
by Intel, what happened there?
>> McAfee: They are purchased by
Intel for eight billion I think.
>> Noory: How much?
>> McAfee: Eight billion.
>> Noory: Eight billion
from a little tiny company--
>> McAfee: A little tiny
company for eight million.
Again, it's a fast-growing
field.
And software security
and information security
is really the [inaudible]
of everything without the
security, we lose everything.
I mean, think about it, if there
were no software protections,
firewalls, antivirus software,
you couldn't run your computer
for more than five
minutes before it crashed.
>> Noory: Gees.
>> McAfee: So it's an
extremely important part
of this entire information
process.
But in any case, I
started Tribal Voice
which was an instant
messaging company
and then the same thing
happened only much quicker, OK?
So I sold out after 18 months
for I think 17 million
and went up--
>> Noory: Good for you.
>> McAfee: -- and
formed another company.
And I'm afraid that's
the only thing I'm good
for is starting things--
>> Noory: Starting,
selling, and getting out.
>> McAfee: Start out and selling
and just getting out because--
>> Noory: What do you
think of the Facebook boys?
Zuckerberg
>> McAfee: Well I think
Facebook is spectacular.
I mean, as a social--
as a social tool,
I personally don't spend
much time on Facebook,
I prefer to do face
time with real people.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: I think this is one
of the props in the world today.
By the way our technology
has isolated us
from the human community.
>> Noory: So true.
>> McAfee: We go into places
and people are just looking
at their smartphones and
they're texting and--
>> Noory: I saw a couple of
four people go to dinner, right,
not one of them John
looked at each other.
That's right, they're
just on their phones.
>> McAfee: And they're texting
and they could be texting
each other for all I know.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: I mean, you know--
>> Noory: They don't know
how to talk with each other.
>> McAfee: Or they use it for--
I don't know, it could be the
man texting the other man's
wife, you know, well,
meet you after--
you don't have a clue
but it's not comfortable,
it's not a comfortable image
in my mind of the direction
that humanity is taking.
Given what we're doing
with that technology.
Now, we could use
technology totally differently
if we had more wisdom
and more courage.
But I fear that if it
continues in this way,
we're going to have remote
sects, remote everything.
>> Noory: Remote everything.
>> McAfee: Remote everything.
And so-- and we're
going to think we live
in an absolute heaven of
reality but it will collapse
around us at some point.
Reality will intrude
no matter what we do.
>> Noory: Or somebody's,
dotcom companies--
fab companies like
Twitter and, you know,
we saw what Facebook
did to Myspace.
>> McAfee: Right.
>> Noory: Will there always be
a new evolution-- I mean now--
>> McAfee: Of course.
>> Noory: -- it's, you know,
Snapchat and Instagram--
>> McAfee: Of course.
>> Noory: They keep coming.
>> McAfee: There will
always be an evolution
because there is no end
to technological growth.
There is no end to
human imagination.
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: And the imagination--
the image of Twitter for example
which occurred to the founders,
wow, what a great concept.
I believe there will
be a greater concept
and a greater concept.
>> Noory: How do
they monetize that?
>> McAfee: pardon?
>> Noory: How do
they monetize that?
>> McAfee: There
is the question.
They-- actually Twitter
went public two days ago,
three days ago.
>> Noory: A couple
of days ago, yeah.
>> McAfee: It came out of
the price of 26 dollars
and opened instantly at 45.
>> Noory: With minimal
earnings, right?
>> McAfee: No earnings.
To my knowledge--
>> Noory: No earnings.
>> McAfee: -- I don't think
they're making any money.
However, anything that the
world has to use, believe me,
you will find a way
to make money.
And this is why people
are investing.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: So that
was astonishing.
So for-- in 30 seconds,
people got 90 percent
on their investment.
>> Noory: Just crazy.
>> McAfee: Isn't it?
>> Noory: It's just crazy.
So John McAfee then sales out,
you've got your funds,
you go to Belize.
Why did you go there?
>> McAfee: A couple of reasons.
It's the most beautiful
country in the world physically.
I mean-- or geographically--
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: -- as the world's
second longest barrier reef.
Beautiful, crystal
clear, emerald waters
on the inside of the reef.
Very calm.
It's the only place in the
world where you can have a dock
in front of your house
right on the ocean.
>> Noory: Had your
vacation there before?
>> McAfee: Oh yeah.
Many times.
It's a great vacation spot.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Great
snorkeling and diving spot.
One of the greatest
in the world.
And then the jungles,
whoa, I've--
you know, I had a place
in Ecuador and I had been
down the Amazon, nothing
like the rivers of Belize.
>> Noory: Nothing like that?
>> McAfee: Nothing like
the rivers of Belize.
You know, the lines with
crocodiles, and the storks,
and howler monkeys, and spider
monkeys and every manner
of wildlife, beautiful, and
more importantly, the plants.
There are 2,700 species
of plants along the
jungle rivers in Belize.
Meaning, they're
easy to collect.
>> Noory: Yes.
>> McAfee: And while
companies like Merck and Bayer,
the large pharmaceuticals
have tested all of them,
they've only tested them
against specific things
like does it kill bacteria?
Yes or no.
If it doesn't, throw it away.
I retested these things,
not just to kill bacteria
but does it interrupt
the communication,
think back to your-- ?
>> Noory: Possible, another
company at that time?
>> McAfee: Pardon?
>> Noory: Another company
you're going to form.
>> McAfee: It was
Cormix [phonetic].
I founded a company
called Cormix.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: -- and I hired some
PhD, a chemist and biologist
and a lot of local
people to collect plants
and grind them and extract.
And I was having
a great old time
until the army came
in and shut me down.
>> Noory: Yeah.
They came in and
tried to extort you.
>> McAfee: Well,
the army didn't.
There was a politician
who tried to extort me.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: I said no and well,
the politicians own the army
so they sent 42 soldiers
and riot here.
Shot my dog in front of my
eyes, destroyed my laboratory,
kept me handcuffed in
the sun for 14 hours
with my hands behind my back.
>> Noory: Were you scared?
>> McAfee: No I was
pissed off George.
>> Noory: I don't blame you.
>> McAfee: I wasn't
scared at all, I was angry.
>> Noory: I don't blame you.
>> McAfee: And then they left.
The politician came
back a week later
after I got everything
cleaned up and said, "Gosh,
I was so sorry to hear
about what happened to you."
He said, "What a
mistake that was."
He said, you know, "They
must have been looking
for somebody else.
And he, by the way, have you
reconsidered your donation?"
I said, "Absolutely not."
>> Noory: Donation they call it?
>> McAfee: Right.
Well, a donation.
They didn't say give
me the money.
So why don't you donate to my
campaign and when I get elected,
I'll give you all of these
lands and tax breaks and--
I'm not interested, thank you.
So instead of giving
him the money,
I called the international
press,
I called the Wall
Street journal first.
I said, "You know,
I haven't talked
to you guys in five years.
I have a story for you."
>> Noory: And they
knew who you were.
>> McAfee: Of course.
>> Noory: They remember.
>> McAfee: They remember in
New York Times and so I went
to everybody at the London
Times, people who reported
on me many times before
and I told my story.
And it was all over the world
that, you know, McAfee--
>> Noory: Now you're
in Belize, right?
>> McAfee: Yes I was in Belize.
So I figured, you know, I was
under the mistaken impression
that all countries have laws.
[ Laughter ]
And that these laws
will protect you.
Well, you know, what
an idiot I am.
There are no laws in
places like Belize.
The law is the law of power.
>> Noory: Exactly.
>> McAfee: You know, the
method of the law is extortion.
The fundamental drive of the
law is fear and that's it.
>> Noory: Your neighbor gets
killed, you and I theorized,
they bumped him off to get you.
>> McAfee: I think they did.
And this was seven months
later and every single day,
I got kicked in another story.
And if you look at that
period, there were thousands
of newspaper and TV stories
about McAfee raided,
dog killed--
>> Noory: I was reading
these accounts.
>> McAfee: Laboratory destroyed.
>> Noory: This poor guy.
>> McAfee: But as long as
the press was looking at me,
the police just couldn't
do anything.
They couldn't just shoot me in
broad daylight or hire someone
because it was being
too obvious, right?
But my neighbor gets whacked
while we want to question him
like we question all
of the neighbors.
They didn't say, "We
think you did it,
we want to question
all the neighbors."
But Mr. McAfee refuses
to be questioned.
Duh, and police, if
they question you,
they can hold you forever.
>> Noory: They hold you forever.
>> McAfee: 60 days at the time,
if they don't like your answer,
set another 60 days
without a court order.
>> Noory: At what
point did you say,
"I got to get out
or dodge here?"
>> McAfee: Well, and clear that
it could not-- I kept thinking,
OK, I can recover this.
I can-- eventually, the
world is going to see
that this was a setup
but no, absolutely not.
>> Noory: How did you get out?
>> McAfee: It just kept
getting worse and worse.
That was difficult.
I had been in Belize long
enough to know how the army
and the police work and I knew
that number one, they never work
on rainy days, they don't care
what happens that day, OK?
So if there's a checkpoint--
and by the way, they had
checkpoints at all the exits.
>> Noory: Looking for you.
>> McAfee: Looking for me.
So I knew that-- sort
of it was a rainy day,
there was this waiver,
everybody through.
Secondly, I've arranged to have
two reporters from Vice come
down and exit with me.
So they got to report it and
I got to have two Americans
to make it look like
we were a crowd.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Then I took off one
of my ex-girlfriend's boyfriend
who was American took him
and myself and my girlfriend
and I was in disguised and every
checkpoint, they just wave us
on through from inside
their cars.
OK, so that was number one.
Number two, all the borders
including the water passages
were controlled by
the coast guard.
So I arranged to have a friend
of mine who look like me
and pretended to be me be
arrested in Southern Mexico
and have that spread
over the news.
And so--
>> Noory: So they
thought they had you?
>> McAfee: They sent everybody
up north and so I escaped
over the Southern Border
and everything was
empty, no one was there.
>> Noory: Gosh.
And here-- did you
feel secure here now?
>> McAfee: No, of course
I don't feel secure here.
>> Noory: You don't?
>> McAfee: The police
has a long arm
and I continue to
talk about them.
If you'll look at
my blog, I have--
there's something every other
day that I post, it's true.
I mean, for example,
there is a--
OK, I reported when I first came
back the police were selling
passports to Iranians and
to other terrorist groups.
>> Noory: To get in here or in--
>> McAfee: To get into
America, not to get me
but just to get in to America.
>> Noory: Right, right.
And--
>> McAfee: Nobody believe me.
Last week, they reported
in a Belizean newspaper
someone took 155 files
from the government and gave
it to the press of people
that they were buying passports
for 100,000 dollars a pop--
>> Noory: God.
>> McAfee: -- from this
one man in the government--
the man that I had
named previously.
So I'm not making this stuff
up and it did come to light.
>> Noory: Was this the guy
who was trying to shake you
down or somebody else?
>> McAfee: No.
It was someone else.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: But it's shocking and
what's more shocking George is
that the news never
gets here to America.
>> Noory: No.
>> McAfee: For example,
one of our most prominent
American citizens,
he owns for example, the largest
Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise
in America, he owns oil-leases
in Belize and Pakistan.
He owns a food processing
company,
he owns the largest shrimp
farm in Central America,
a very well connected man.
He's a commercial pilot.
Extremely rich, he was one of
the people in this package.
There's this-- has his passport
photo in all the documentation
and how much money he paid.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: Now you
have to ask yourself,
why is an American citizen--
>> Noory: What does he need?
>> McAfee: He is also of
Muslim descent by the way
and he owns banks here in
America that are affiliated
with Muslim terrorists
and with--
America is just not going to
let him fly around at will
but with the Belizean passport,
he goes to Belize, he flies,
you know, where he want.
>> Noory: This is a huge story.
Huge.
>> McAfee: Well, it's
out there for any--
you could Google it yourself.
The problem is it doesn't get
reported here in the states.
>> Noory: And these people
who bought the passports God
knows what they need them for.
>> McAfee: I know what
they needed it for.
>> Noory: Nice way to
enter the country, right?
>> McAfee: A nice way to enter
the country because what happens
with Belizean passport, you
can travel throughout all
of Central America and all the
caricom countries that is all
of the Caribbean-- is
it Caribbean Union.
In Mexico, you just walk
across like anybody else.
>> Noory: I would hope homeland
security has read this story
and they're jumping--
>> McAfee: If they have, they're
not doing anything about it.
This man is still free
and flying around.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> McAfee: So in any case,
it's been an interest--
>> Noory: What a ride John.
>> McAfee: It has
been a ride sir.
>> Noory: What a ride.
What are you doing next?
What's up--
>> McAfee: Well, there
are a couple of things.
When I formed the
company to create privacy
for its citizenry
electronically,
it's sort of a secondary
internet.
It's not to replace the internet
but to give you a switch.
I mean for example, if you're
Googling, you know, where to eat
or general information,
you don't care
if anybody is watching
you usually.
>> Noory: You don't think--
>> McAfee: If you're sending a
private message to your wife,
your girlfriend, your son,
if you have a private
communication, it doesn't have
to be a juicy communication
but just something
that really doesn't
need to be shared,
then you switch to
private network.
>> Noory: And you switch
over to that, that's smart.
>> McAfee: So hopefully, it will
be available in about every year
and if the NSA lets me build it,
then I think it will be a boon
for the American citizen.
>> Noory: Could they
put the kibosh on it?
>> McAfee: Well of course.
It's the government, they
can do what they want.
They can audit me
a million times--
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: -- they
can, you know,
they can pass a law saying
this is illegal, whatever.
>> Noory: Are you back to stay?
>> McAfee: I think so.
I think so.
You know, I think I would
be better off trying
to fix the small ills within
this country than to flee
from them in two
things which, you know,
just out of the frying
pan, into the fire maybe.
>> Noory: Sure.
Well, and you got your
taste on the outside.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: You see
what it's like.
>> McAfee: Yes, I have seen
what it's like firsthand.
>> Noory: I've got my
issues with government
but there's never been
a country like this.
>> McAfee: No, there hasn't, you
know, and I will say for anybody
to hear that we live in the
greatest country on this planet.
It is not perfect.
>> Noory: People want to--
they want to track you,
they want to read your
blogs, where do they go?
How do we do this?
>> McAfee: Who is mcafee.com?
>> Noory: OK, simple as that.
>> McAfee: That's it.
>> Noory: John, as you look
at the future of technology,
where are we going to
be five years from now?
I mean, people are saying
that your desktop
computer will be passe--
>> McAfee: Of course.
>> Noory: Do you think so?
>> McAfee: Oh absolutely.
I mean, already, I am annoyed
that they are purposely
not putting functions
in our smartphones like--
>> Noory: That they could.
>> McAfee: That they could
like file transfers and things
so that we still have to buy
laptops and desktops, right?
>> Noory: Smart move,
you're right.
>> McAfee: So it boils down to
two things and two things only.
The size of the screen and your
method of inputting the keypad.
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: But the
keypad is becoming pass,
you've got an android font for
phone, a current software--
>> Noory: Touchscreen.
>> McAfee: OK so now, have
you used the voice function?
>> Noory: Yes.
>> McAfee: It's spectacular.
>> Noory: I've sent
text via voice.
>> McAfee: It's spectacular.
>> Noory: If I want to
do Google, it's voice.
>> McAfee: Yeah.
Within five years, it will
be 100 percent accurate.
The annoying features now
are the software should know
where to put the periods,
the commas, and everything--
>> Noory: It doesn't
know that yet.
>> McAfee: But however, in five
years, I guarantee it will.
We're not going to
need keyboards.
If we can speak, and it's faster
than typing, we'll
need keyboards.
The other thing is
screen size, you know,
I don't know how
good your eyes are--
>> Noory: Minds like
that and it's very small.
I'm still using the--
>> McAfee: Yeah and trying to
scroll around, it is annoying.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: That's going to
be fixed in a number of ways.
There are optical systems in
play where you put on a pair
of glasses in the screen and
it just loads in front of you.
Full size that-- maybe that's
going to be the answer--
>> Noory: I love technology.
>> McAfee: I brought a device
by the way, where was I, Japan--
somewhere recently that will--
put it on your desk and
it displays the screen
in high resolution on your wall.
Small, little device.
>> Noory: Well that's great.
We're going to come back again.
John McAfee has been our
guest here on Beyond Belief
but stay tuned because
we'll have other programs
with John right here
on Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]